###E-mail Marketing

Throughout the 20th century empires were built on the back of direct marketing and the mailing list. Marketers discovered that once a prospect became a customer there was a high likelihood that they would buy multiple times. Over time the marketer would learn more about his customers and thus be able to better target his offers and increase his success and the companies profits. Direct marketing differs from general advertising in that it asks for and gets a response. The marketer would place an advert in a newspaper or on the radio and ask for the reader or listener to respond with their details and usually a reference to where the advert was seen or heard. In this way the marketer would grow his mailing list. Mailing lists became a valuable asset and were often traded to other marketers who would share their offers with an audience that matched their target. Direct marketeers came to dominate some markets entirely. Unlike typical broadcast advertising direct marketing campaigns can be measured. Measurement allows copywriters to compete against the incumbent mailing, the control, with their copy to get a better response and return a higher profit for the company. 

Direct marketing also has a darker side with criminal gangs and unscrupulous marketers targeting vulnerable people with so called 'sucker lists'. A list that contains the details of people known to be an easy target for certain offers. Once you are on a list it is not always easy to get off. a reputable company will have a mechanism for removal. but if your name is on a list that is traded from company to company how do you remove your details from all the databases. Laws and industry standards have attempted to control the industry with so called no contact databases which marketers should use to clean their lists but it is not perfect.

Email and the internet have given the 'list' a new home. But this time the control to a large extent is in the hands of the receiver. A reputable company using a reputable email management system will provide links for instant removal from the list. If you are unlucky and your email address ends up on the list of an unscrupulous marketer or a criminal gang then you have the ultimate say. If things get too bad you can just close your email account. Many people set up disposable accounts with online email services like hotmail or gmail just for subscribing to email lists or responding to offers that that sound perhaps too good to be true.

The great news is that using email as a marketing tool is one of the most effective forms of marketing. Just like it's venerable postal ancestor it is measurable. Unlike direct marketing via the postal service it is much cheaper to create and distribute. Results data is available much more quickly, hours instead of days or weeks. Testing different versions of an offer to different segments of a list is now much easier to do. So for honest marketers direct marketing via email is better than ever. 